Hey it's Bruno here wow you must have worked extremely hard that was a lot of code but I can't believe
it.
We have sessions.
Our users don't have to constantly sign in to use our smart brain app and we've protected all our routes
so that our endpoints are now safe.
This is incredible work.
I love how you use Dreda's to make sessions really really fast to check and couldn't thank you enough.
I think you need a couple of days vacation after that one though because that was a lot of code anyway.
Really appreciated.
Our company is growing tremendously because of you so I think there's a promotion coming out for you
soon.
Anyway take a break.
I'll see you in a couple of days.
Back to work.
Bye bye.
All right everybody.
Good job.
We managed to impress Bruno and that was a really tough section but the beauty of that section is that
you now have a code base that you can use to expand on your projects because most apps that you're going
to use will have some sort of users and sign in functionality.
You want to make sure that there is some sort of sessions and you also want to protect some rights so
you can use the smart brain app and whichever way you want to extend it and make it better or to even
create something new on your own.
But you now have a good understanding of how to use sessions and JWT to have full access and control
over your users.
We've managed to create our sign in route where we store user names and passwords the hash passwords
in our database if a user signs in we generate a token and that token gets also stored in our Dreda's
database.
Now you might be asking yourself this doesn't this make it extremely complicated and also take longer.
Well because it rattus is a memory storage it's stored in memory it's extremely fast.
One of the fastest databases you can have for accessing small pieces of data like Session tokens.
So this is really really fast and you're able to scale because you can just have multiple rattus databases
and multiple API servers.
So you build a system that is extremely scalable you can just keep adding machines to it and it'll work
fast no matter how many users were also able to have JWT that contains some sign of information so that
if we have other API that we need to talk to and it's just not a simple client server relationship we
can use this token to actually talk to other API endpoints from our server.
Again it's extensible as we move to more and more servers deeper and nested architectures which again
is beyond the scope of the discourse.
But this teaches a great way to expand and have possibly have a scalable solution to your architecture.
Anyway we stored this token into our Retta server and we return it to the client the client then stores
it in their session stores or local storage and from there the user can do whatever they want anytime
they need something like updating a profile or getting a profile or any other routes.
They simply grab that token from their session storage sent to us we say Oh thanks for the token.
I see the authorization header.
I'm going to check read this.
Hey Mr. rattus or Mrs. rattus do you have that token.
Yep I do.
If they do here's the I.D..
And once that check goes to the server says all right you say who you say you are you can have your
nice present.
Now looking at this code there's a lot of things that we can improve and a lot of things that we could
refactor.
And if you started to notice see Sink's that's a really really good.
That means you're starting to understand how the dots are connected how things are connected.
And I encourage you to clean up the code and see where you can improve why you can do.
I also want you to do a little bit of an exercise and that is if you remember in our apt.
Yes we have new fields that we've created in the state.
A pat and an age state that the user has.
But we need to actually add those columns to our tables and have the ability to update these.
Maybe in the profile update.
We can also send the pat and age to obtain these values.
So this is your challenge knowing what we've just done incorporate the profile update and point to also
account for pet and age as a hint.
You might need to update the create table whereas that in the post gresse right over here in the tables
you might have to add a few extra columns in here such as Pat and H and you might have to take down
your container and re build everything.
But once you do that and you go through the steps you can expand upon the profile post update to also
include age and pet.
Now we finally incorporated all the things that we've learned in the past few sections and you can see
now how clean and nice our working environment is.
We put our rattus database an API all into this one container.
So from one command and development time we're just able to have things work and really have fast development.
I hope you see the value in that.
And as a developer you now have the ability to incorporate this in your team your bosses your clients.
Your company is just going to love you for it.
So I highly recommend you do this and something like this.
We also used things like rattus to be able to create scalable large applications because we know how
to use containers.
Now we can make multiple replications of our API server.
We can make multiple replications of our databases and multiple replications of our rattus database
which is really really fast.
So even though the API is queuing rattus for ID and checking the session token it's extremely fast so
that we can keep adding machines to it.
Keep adding machines to it and scale in production.
As more and more users grow and we're going to cover load balancing and how that might work in performance
part 3.
But this diagram should now make a lot of sense to you and how all these pieces are connected is one
of the hardest things to grasp.
So if you're able to understand this if you're able to follow along code along with me and understand
what I've done up until now you are far above a regular web developer you now have a high level picture
so you can decide for yourself what kind of architecture you want what do you want to do when you build
an app so that it is pleasant to work with for developers but also come production time.
It's a bold to scale and it has the flexibility to grow and with that I think we all need a break.
I'll see in the next section Buh-Bye.